LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 3 (Fri 2015-09-25) - notes

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-25.notes.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-18.notes.md
* Expected: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, Debbie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Summary

* Next call: Friday, October 16

* For the next call, everyone please review
  * https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/Competencies.md
    Put your initials, in brackets, after any edits you may want to make. [tb]
    Post your comments to list or bring them to the next call.

  * https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/tree/master/TopicIndex
    Are the topics sufficient to provide a home for our competencies?
    Do you see gaps?

* Further steps beyond the next call
  * Clarify editorial workflow: should we start to edit the
    [Turtle representation](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/CompIndex/CompIndex.ttl)
    directly and generate a more reader-friendly document such as 
    [our current competencies draft](https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/Competencies.md),
    or should we do it the other way around -- i.e., generate Turtle 
    from some text representation?

  * Do we need to distinguish between a "stage" version and a "publication"
    version of the Turtle document?

  * Solicit feedback on our (reader-friendly) competency draft from experts.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Discussion: Competencies related to SPARQL

* Competencies as discussed last week
  * https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-31.telecon2_assignments.md

* Edited competencies, ideally for "finalization" on the call:
  * https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-25.competencies_for_discussion.md
  * https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-09-25.competencies_for_discussion2.md


__Sean__: First item- Next Call.  Tom is unavailable on Oct 21.

__Sean__: Decided to reschedule October 16.

__Sean__: Goal- to complete SPARQL competencies on October 16.

__Tom__: Condensed Sean and Stuart's clustered competencies- document titled
"Competencies for Discussion 2".  Suggest we walk through Comp for Disc 2
document.  Closing in on workflow process.  Eventually will be editing Turtle
statements.

__Stuart__: Turtle statements will be migrated to triple store, which are then
used by Word Press.

__Stuart__: Question seek public comment/suggestions while we are still at
Github stage?

__Tom__: Hand formatted CFD2 document.  Edit document like this, then use doc
to update Turtle?

__Tom__: In this case, need to keep them in sync.  No automatic way to use doc
to update Turtle.

__Tom__: Use doc like this to get consensus on wordings, then edit Turtle.
Write script that will generate markdown document.  One line per competency,
one line per benchmark. One line per topic cluster.  Indented at various
levels.  Turtle doc will be canonical.  Ingested into triple store and used to
update Word Press.

__Debbie__: you probably already have seen this, but it might be useful anyway
in writing our competencies:
https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/31/aa/29/31aa291e5d5ba4d44bc1047409acdfd5.jpg

__Stuart__: Workflow concern.  When Turtle in Github updates in triplestore,
also triggers updates in cataloging tools and website.

__Stuart__: If we are in a comment period, splitting, etc - good idea to get
the input before we actually publish.

__Stuart__: This is sort of a final step - hoped we had received outside input
before this point.

__Tom__: We could still be editing Turtle.  Have staging version and public
version.  Need to provide readable version.  Editing in CFD2 doc.  Tried to
make more printable/readable and condensed.  But, this is extra manual editing
work - is this a good idea to depend on going forward?  Better idea to used
staged version of Turtle to generate document which can be edited?  Readable
version the one to show people for input on content.

__Stuart__: Ultimately, goal should be to use Github's mechanisms for editing
and versioning.  Otherwise, human bottlenecks a possibility.

__Tom__: (Note to self): How does Schema.org use Github to collect suggestions?

__Stuart__: If we can get a tool that generates the Turtle from the working document.

__Tom__: Turtle to Markdown.  Edit to markdown.  Allows you to see diff.
Approve changes back to Turtle document.  Basic outline is clear.  Move on to
substance of competencies.  Topic Cluster: Fund. of Linked Data We have some
nice and short competencies.  One longer- "Understands .... serializations"
Question- Is there an ideal length/wordiness?

__Stuart__: Gist is that students think in terms of syntax, comp. is clarifying
that RDF model itself is important.  Yes, wordy, but important to get the
concept right - do not need get wording exactly right.  Also on the agenda
today is the proficiency levels.  Would not try to second-guess that something
is too simple.

__Sean__: Topic: Interacting with LD.  Largest topic cluster by far.

__Tom__: Under searching RDF data stores with SPARQL.  Firsts for start with
verb "understands".

__Stuart__: Substance more important than length.  Role of Punctuation.  Longer
competencies can be shortened by making descriptive points benchmarks under
competency.

__Tom__: Competency has to be under just one topic?

__Stuart__: Concept can be introduced at one level and then revisited at
another.  Proficiency issue.  But, from a topical indexing standpoint, having
comp. under one topic would be better.

__Kai__: Problems that can occur under blank nodes.  Agree that shouldn't be
exact same competency in same format under different topics- confusing

__Stuart__: Formulates QNames.  Originally written in relation to SPARQL
queries, but  URIs have more general applications.

__Tom__: Example of where concept should be enumerated in other areas of CI.

__Debbie__: I agree; the topic of identification and URIs is an especially
tricky one for newbs to understand

__Tom__: Too bad you can't see me editing.  Would be very useful.  Attempting
to use Skype screenshare...

__Kai__: Make sense to create topic just for Turtle?

__Magnus__: I think prefixes should get into the first topic.

__Stuart__: http://explore.dublincore.net/sub-vocabulary-v2/. This is the draft
version that Tom is referencing.  A lot more subcategories into which things
could fit.  Vocab linked above is still in development.

__Kai__: At least need something about serialization.  Angle Brackets, QNames,
URIs fall under this.

__Stuart__: Foundational stuff that could be up under Fundamentals of LD.

__Kai__: Group these topics under Basics, have more to do with that than
SPARQL.

__Tom__: [Speaks while editing on screenshare.]

__Sean__: "Demonstrates a working knowledge"- did not name WHERE in competency.

__Stuart__: In editing, went back to primary docs (W3C) to clean up wording.

__Tom__: Going down list.  Looks good worded as is at this point.

__Sean__: Topics- Four types, modifers are separate topics.

__Kai__: Sees repetition- modifiers related to structure of queries, which is
already represented further up.

__Magnus__: This was the order concepts were presented in tutorial video, but
isnt logical/good way to present it in Competency Index.

__Tom__: Concept of Named Graph.

__Stuart__: Belongs under Fundamentals

__Kai__: Good example of having one competency to untrdouce it under Fund, then
other comp. that addresses as relates to SPARQL.

__Tom__: Expert eyes needed to make sure our terminology is still current.
Resurrected Updating RDF with SPARQL 1.1.  HTTP was in two separate places in
Index.  Running low on time this meeting.

__Stuart__: We all got these competencies list late.  Still need time for
everyone to sit down and look individually.

__Tom__: Will freeze this doc and create competencies.md doc which can be
edited.  Will use this new doc for next two or three calls.  Etiquette is to
always go to github repos and pull.  Feel free to do some edits and then push
right away.  Save points to discuss next call or bring up points on maillist.

__Stuart__: Currently using- Resource Warrant.  But are set of resources was
likely not fully representative.  Big holes could still remain.  Feel free to
fill holes as you see them.

__Tom__: Etiquette: put your name after anything you change.

__Stuart__: Initials.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of the Topic Index (Stuart)

-  https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/tree/master/TopicIndex

__Stuart__: http://explore.dublincore.net/sub-vocabulary-v2/ Competency Index:
Cluster / Topic /Comptency / Benchmark - people will not tag resources to
Clusters and Topics - they are simply there to organize the competencies - they
are not competencies...  ...but they are critical because we will use them for
topical indexing of documents.  As a way of slicing/dicing the competencies.
...So we need for you to look at the topical index with a critical eye - do the
major subdivisions make sense?  Is there a home for all competencies here?

__Debbie__: I think I’m still a bit unclear on the verbiage differences between
benchmarks and competencies. If anyone wants to clarify that I would really
appreciate it!

__Stuart__: ...Alot of these were derived from tutorials and texts.

__Debbie__: I understand it that benchmarks represent concrete actions.

__Sean__: Competencies represent abstracts like understands.

__Debbie__: That's what I thought too, but I saw some action words like
‘demonstrates’ in some competencies.

__Stuart__: ...The topics themselves are probably incomplete.  If between now
and the next call, you could look this over....  At least the Topical Clusters,
the largest subdivisions.  Because we are going to be indexing resources
against the Topical Index.

__Sean__: I think sometimes we put words like demonstrates just to avoid
understands in every statement, but that's probably not a thing we should do.

__Debbie__: I shared the 
[Bloom's Taxonomy Verbs](http://www.fresnostate.edu/academics/oie/documents/assesments/Blooms%20Level.pdf)
document earlier here.

__Stuart__: See also http://asn.jesandco.org/resources/D2527589

__Debbie__: Oh great! That should help us out.

__Sean__: So it is more of a question of granularity?

__Debbie__: I think so, Sean.

__Tom__: Topics: index the subject matter of resources.  Competencies: to organize...

__Stuart__: See http://explore.dublincore.net/comp-index/
