[10/16/15, 4:55:43 PM] Sean Dolan: alytics too specific from my POV
[10/16/15, 4:56:10 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: just plain Data Analytics then?
[10/16/15, 4:56:24 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: This index will be interesting tool for gap analysis
[10/16/15, 4:59:08 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: keep LD analytics for now
[10/16/15, 4:59:24 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai: REST architecture and services- could also be under fundamentals of LD
[10/16/15, 4:59:47 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai: hard to distinguish for APIs for LD
[10/16/15, 5:00:08 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: how about "LD Architecture and Services" under Fundamentals of RDF"
[10/16/15, 5:00:30 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: Question for Kai- all this thinking 5 mins before deadline?
[10/16/15, 5:01:31 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Top of the hour.  Think we have arrived at visibly improved topic index
[10/16/15, 5:01:51 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Will post link so can see changes highlighted side by side
[10/16/15, 5:02:06 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Suggests we keep this open for a few days.  Mistakes or issues raise on list
[10/16/15, 5:02:15 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Silence taken as consent
[10/16/15, 5:02:38 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Reply if necessary by next Wednesday, then declare "good enough" for now
[10/16/15, 5:03:08 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: My hope on production side, need to 1: updating of existing data and 2: Index in ASN
[10/16/15, 5:03:26 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: salvage as much of current mapping and indexing as possible
[10/16/15, 5:03:48 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: vocab, once skos-ified, has to be into angular JS resource editor
[10/16/15, 5:04:03 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Doodle Poll, next call Nov 13 or 20
[10/16/15, 5:04:16 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Will post minutes and diff to new version.
[10/16/15, 5:04:38 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: Final question for Tom- next area headed into is Fundamentals
[10/16/15, 5:05:17 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom: Continue to refine SPARQL with goal of finalizing on next call.  Attention to competencies with Create Read Updates Delete
[10/16/15, 5:06:40 PM] Sean Dolan: Use resource warrant and expert warrant on Fundamentals
[10/16/15, 5:07:18 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart: Feel free to create competency even if no resources currently
[10/16/15, 5:07:34 PM] Thomas Baker: Call ended  1 hour 7 minutes 58 seconds
[1/15/16, 2:58:41 PM] Thomas Baker: Everyone here but Debbie?
[1/15/16, 2:58:55 PM] Thomas Baker: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-01-15.cieb-agenda.md
[1/15/16, 2:58:55 PM] Kai Eckert: I am here :-)
[1/15/16, 2:59:09 PM] Stuart A. Sutton: I'm here...did you start the call?
[1/15/16, 2:59:16 PM] Thomas Baker: Not yet
[1/15/16, 2:59:23 PM] Sean Dolan: I'm here
[1/15/16, 2:59:23 PM] Stuart A. Sutton: Whew...
[1/15/16, 2:59:27 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: hi all
[1/15/16, 2:59:27 PM] Thomas Baker: 14:59. Debbie not yet here.
[1/15/16, 3:00:04 PM] Thomas Baker: ok - starting...
[1/15/16, 3:00:11 PM] Thomas Baker: Call started
[1/15/16, 3:01:26 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Doodle poll for class in january fenruary and march
[1/15/16, 3:01:37 PM] Sean Dolan: proposes three more mettings
[1/15/16, 3:02:04 PM] Sean Dolan: calls*
[1/15/16, 3:02:15 PM] debbie maron: the sounds cutting in and out
[1/15/16, 3:02:39 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: @Kai: you have a very low volume, I can barely hear you
[1/15/16, 3:02:49 PM] Kai Eckert: As always. Skype hates me :-(
[1/15/16, 3:03:05 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- havent met in a while, quite a bit to do
[1/15/16, 3:03:37 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Need to start shifting gears. Reordering of priorities. Discussed with Stuart and Kai.
[1/15/16, 3:04:13 PM] debbie maron: i was just finalizing my spring schedule, but i can do that later today
[1/15/16, 3:04:31 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Propose meeting on Jan 29 and 19 Feb and March 4.
[1/15/16, 3:04:33 PM] debbie maron: those all fridays?
[1/15/16, 3:04:52 PM] Sean Dolan: kai- Comment- available more dates if we take earlier slot like today
[1/15/16, 3:04:52 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: @Kai: now you are quite loud :)
[1/15/16, 3:05:08 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: earlier is ok with me
[1/15/16, 3:05:11 PM] debbie maron: yeah its better for me too.
[1/15/16, 3:05:15 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- earlier slot works for me
[1/15/16, 3:05:42 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Finalize competencies related to SPARQL. supposed to be a formality
[1/15/16, 3:06:15 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- When I look at competencies now, I see some small issues. one is that sometimes competencies should be benchmarks
[1/15/16, 3:06:38 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- One or two I wanted to go in and edit, did so on a branch of the github repo
[1/15/16, 3:07:03 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Havent received anymore comments on SPARQL comps, so dont want to spend more time on call today
[1/15/16, 3:07:12 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- One point on edits.
[1/15/16, 3:07:54 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- Thought we had finalized SPARQL. Went ahead and mapped to SPARQL competencies, publicly available.
[1/15/16, 3:08:24 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- As long as we are shuffling nodes around- ok so far because URIs remain the same
[1/15/16, 3:09:05 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- A change policy has to kick in.
[1/15/16, 3:09:23 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- When we say published, things begin to happen immediately
[1/15/16, 3:10:09 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Bigger point. We should be looking at how these are actually mapping to resources
[1/15/16, 3:10:29 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Some headings are not mapping at all.  Would be surprised if some did at all.
[1/15/16, 3:10:53 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Methodology should be focusing more on feedback from assigning these headings to resource descriptions.
[1/15/16, 3:11:11 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- Danger of gap in resources, not bad headings
[1/15/16, 3:11:32 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Think competencies for SPARQL are too fine-grained
[1/15/16, 3:12:14 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Dont need to cover all the features in competencies.  Resources are at a higher level of granularity.  back away from going into too much detail
[1/15/16, 3:13:33 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Move towards aprocess which is a little bit more aware of how the competencies are being used in description
[1/15/16, 3:15:10 PM] Thomas Baker: Sean: Took a subset of 100 out of 450 descriptions, mapped to competencies, so that public would have something to look at.
[1/15/16, 3:15:20 PM] Thomas Baker: ...waiting for Index to be more complete.
[1/15/16, 3:15:46 PM] Thomas Baker: Stuart: There were no approved competencies under "fundamentals".
[1/15/16, 3:16:09 PM] Thomas Baker: ..."Why don't we hold off so we don't have to keep partially complete records."
[1/15/16, 3:16:27 PM] Thomas Baker: ..."When this area is complete - go back and look at those records"
[1/15/16, 3:17:00 PM] Thomas Baker: ...But Sean is doing basic cataloging of resources -- just not mapping.
[1/15/16, 3:17:15 PM] Thomas Baker: ...Topical yes, but not yet competencies mapped.
[1/15/16, 3:17:24 PM] Thomas Baker: ...So the pool of 400 is growing.
[1/15/16, 3:17:31 PM] Thomas Baker: Sean: Slowly, but growing.
[1/15/16, 3:18:25 PM] Thomas Baker: Sean: Some resources had, say, 8 competencies.
[1/15/16, 3:18:34 PM] Thomas Baker: ...question of granularity is tough.
[1/15/16, 3:18:52 PM] Thomas Baker: Stuart: Depends on resource.  Some resources only address part of the competency.
[1/15/16, 3:19:26 PM] Thomas Baker: Sean: Quality of resources not up to what I expected.
[1/15/16, 3:19:43 PM] Thomas Baker: ...Almost all resources only partially usable.
[1/15/16, 3:24:57 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- CRUD resources. Keep it simple
[1/15/16, 3:25:06 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Not go into too much detail.
[1/15/16, 3:25:29 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- Did not get it done- does not feel competent with this area and hasnt been well
[1/15/16, 3:25:52 PM] Thomas Baker: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-11-20.SPARQL_CRUD_assignments.md
[1/15/16, 3:26:28 PM] Sean Dolan: Debbie- Can't say was incredibly confident either- took a stab.  Hopefully some were helpful.
[1/15/16, 3:27:08 PM] Sean Dolan: Debbie- Definite things I saw that mapped clearly to CRUD competencies. Would not be offended if were edited.
[1/15/16, 3:27:21 PM] Thomas Baker: Stuart we lost you
[1/15/16, 3:27:34 PM] Kai Eckert: I propose to use Webex next time
[1/15/16, 3:29:03 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Indexed with competencies we have right now. General SPARQL 101 slides.  Found we do not have INSERT, DELETE operations ....
[1/15/16, 3:29:45 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- JSON-LD as a benchmark.  Serialization format only right now.  deserves more representation
[1/15/16, 3:29:57 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: gone
[1/15/16, 3:29:58 PM] debbie maron: i agree. anything from schema.org is important to mention i would think.
[1/15/16, 3:30:21 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: gone again
[1/15/16, 3:30:28 PM] Stuart A. Sutton: Gone again here too
[1/15/16, 3:30:29 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: this gets really hard to listen to
[1/15/16, 3:30:36 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- second resource.  walkthrough, not very good blog post.  Graph store protocol should be http protocol
[1/15/16, 3:30:37 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: please re-host the call
[1/15/16, 3:31:08 PM] Thomas Baker: Call ended  30 minutes 54 seconds
[1/15/16, 3:31:11 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: silence
[1/15/16, 3:31:16 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: and static only
[1/15/16, 3:31:23 PM] Thomas Baker: Call started
[1/15/16, 3:31:42 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: Dropouts agian
[1/15/16, 3:31:47 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: please use another host
[1/15/16, 3:31:53 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: ok
[1/15/16, 3:31:56 PM] Stuart A. Sutton: It is still very bad sound
[1/15/16, 3:32:16 PM] debbie maron: its quite staticky and hard to hear
[1/15/16, 3:32:35 PM] Kai Eckert: I would someone else let start the call
[1/15/16, 3:32:42 PM] Thomas Baker: fine with me.
[1/15/16, 3:32:42 PM] Kai Eckert: Magnus would be my best guess
[1/15/16, 3:32:46 PM] Thomas Baker: sorry for the problems.
[1/15/16, 3:32:47 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: the old call is still open
[1/15/16, 3:32:52 PM] Thomas Baker: Magnus, can you do it?
[1/15/16, 3:32:58 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: i am trying to
[1/15/16, 3:33:01 PM] Thomas Baker: Call ended  1 minute 36 seconds[1/15/16, 3:33:16 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: Call started
[1/15/16, 3:33:59 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Webex next time?
[1/15/16, 3:34:16 PM] Stuart A. Sutton: I/m here
[1/15/16, 3:36:02 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- POSt GET DELETE with graph store.  changing with sparql 1.1 directly is a different set of competencies
[1/15/16, 3:36:08 PM] debbie maron: the HTTP distinction is good; i tried to bring that up too
[1/15/16, 3:36:45 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Would also switch order.  SPARQL first, then HTTP
[1/15/16, 3:37:29 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Proper name is SPARQL HTTP Graph Store Protocol. W3C
[1/15/16, 3:37:30 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-http-rdf-update/
[1/15/16, 3:38:21 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Very important point to distinguish the two ways to update.  Shouldn't be mixed.
[1/15/16, 3:39:08 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Slightly reword it for clarity for someone who is reading with a little bit of knowledge
[1/15/16, 3:39:42 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Add something like REST.
[1/15/16, 3:40:07 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom - Capture without using jargon.
[1/15/16, 3:40:46 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- History of SPARQL and standardization process. How it evolved.  May be helpful to add context?
[1/15/16, 3:41:03 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- Up in the Fundamentals section?
[1/15/16, 3:42:04 PM] Sean Dolan: Magnus- Similar to Kai.  Need to separate SPARQL part and RESTful API part
[1/15/16, 3:42:45 PM] Sean Dolan: Magnus- Second resource is research paper.  What sort of competencies could be gained from reading this?
[1/15/16, 3:43:17 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Discussed with Sean.  Research papers with experimental extensions.  Crosses a line.
[1/15/16, 3:43:43 PM] Sean Dolan: Tom- Research generally should be considered beyond focus.
[1/15/16, 3:44:01 PM] Sean Dolan: Staurt- Resource type for scholarly papers.  Bottomless pit.
[1/15/16, 3:44:31 PM] Sean Dolan: Stuart- Scholarly works have intention to inform- Where to draw the line.  magnus did what he should- dont map the resource.
[1/15/16, 3:44:50 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Disagrees a little.  Section for Lnked Data Applications.
[1/15/16, 3:45:26 PM] Sean Dolan: Kai- Proposes another competency like "securing applications"
[1/15/16, 3:45:35 PM] Sean Dolan: Magnus- Would never use this kind of resource
[1/15/16, 3:46:01 PM] Sean Dolan: Magnus- "Data security" , "Acces security"
[1/15/16, 3:46:04 PM] Sean Dolan: Access*
[1/15/16, 3:51:28 PM] Stuart A. Sutton: Stepping away for a moment
[1/15/16, 3:54:04 PM] Thomas Baker: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/commit/30d4c37443504f94bb5ddeb8a25fa716081e0acb#diff-d3d3c09d6e4fe3804d0023ead6d9ae75
[1/15/16, 3:57:22 PM] debbie maron: need to catch a bus to another meeting; bye everyone!
[1/15/16, 3:58:25 PM] Magnus Pfeffer: Call ended  25 minutes 6 seconds
