## LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 7 (Fri 2016-02-19) - notes - REVISED

* Notes:    https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-02-19.cieb-notes.md
* Previous: https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-01-29.cieb-notes.md
* Attended: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus, Debbie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Next Call

* 2016-03-11 Fri 1500 CET - Tom, Sean, Debbie, Kai, Stuart. Regrets: Magnus?

----------------------------------------------------------------------
This week - review of competency index

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i1k5kZLWncb3dJozb61SQiRS7hljUAox-gEXs4gHs7o

__Tom__: Many people have viewed Google Doc of the Competency Index though not
many have left comments.  We should discuss those comments on the call.

__Stuart__: Wouldn't read too much into the lack of comment.  Google Doc - 
this is the result of people requesting this format.

__Tom__: Mike Lauruhn left a comment: "General comment from ALA Midwinter --
can the competencies and benchmarks be grouped by either proficiency level
(Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced, Expert) or by role (Product Management,
Application Developer, Data Wrangler, Product Director, etc.)?  Don't know if
that has a place on this document, but good to consider."

__Stuart__: Competencies can reflect levels of proficiency.  One: it is a 
hard judgement call.  We are doing it with learning resources.  But I 
think it is something at this point that we cannot really entertain, at 
least for this Competency Framework.  Assertions could be made in 
"paradata" in the context of Linked Data.  We didn't go down that path.
Maybe separate mapping where those assertions are made.

...As for roles - people want to enumerate competencies for a particular job.
But is that not done more appropriately by professional organizations?  "Here
is necessary to do job X".  Both are reasonable. Interesting suggestion but
don't see what we can do about this.  As Linked Data, things can be built on
top of it.  So for pragmatic reasons, not.  But in long term, working with
particular communities on layers could be good.  Sure those comments are coming
from directors who want to create staff profiles - perfect use, but not
practical.

__Tom__: Staplegun comment (Mr DC): 'A competency to understand where LD fits
in a broader context might be useful? E.g. I recently received questions
"What's the difference between LD and the Internet of Things?" and "What's the
difference between a relational DB and a triplestore?"'

__Sean__: We did have a competency about difference between... ("Differentiates
hierarchical document models (eg, XML) and graph models (RDF)")

__Stuart__: "Related data models" is a topic under Fundamentals.  It was a
bit more specific.  One thing we have not done.  In order to generalize
we lost something.  Can add scope notes to competency.

__Kai__: We have Creating Linked Data Applications - might be 
useful to think about areas where Linked Data is useful.  Can see 
a relation between Internet of Things and LD at level of assigning 
URIs to everything.

__Stuart__: Would it be useful - we have authors of learning resources -
authors from Euclid Project, etc, whose work we have cannibalized to create
these things.

__Tom__: Could use structured descriptions as basis for emails to 
people saying "we indexed X using Y competency -- please feel free 
to comment..."

__Sean__: Solicit comments from authors of the resources we index, at 
any rate for the main ones?

__Tom__: Could write to a few of them if we had a list of resources indexed
along with competencies addressed.  Could contact them, ask to comment on CI
draft.  Main obstacle: would have to dig out their email address.

__Sean__: If an email is not available, we could possibly leave a message in
the comments section where their video is hosted (YouTube, VideoLectures.net).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
New areas

https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/CompIndex/ScratchPad.md 
/Users/tbaker/github/ld4pe/cieb/CompIndex/ScratchPad.md 

__Tom__: Marcia Zeng suggested that we have competencies related to SKOS.
Am taking an ACTION to propose a few.  Will follow up with Tom Johnson re: 
Ruby/RDF libraries.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Gap analysis (Sean)

__Sean__: Did gap analysis about resources collected (400+).  Used 
1-to-5 scale to guestimate how well-populated topics are.  Things
like versioning and provenance.  Mike Crandall asked me to do this 
analysis to ask content providers to create resources.

__Stuart__: The higher the ranking here, the more fine-grained the CI 
for that topic.  A pattern that would make sense.  Would you say that 
SPARQL is covered in greater depth - an artifact of the area that 
we picked?

__Sean__: Alot of resources about it because it is difficult to learn.
Not intuitive - takes alot of practice.  So far, we have shared just
with content providers.

__Stuart__: Could be blogged. 

__Sean__: Resources are either very basic or very specific/advanced.
These topic headings - we approved in October - not suggesting we 
re-think - but would be good to come up with descriptions.  For 
example, do not recall what we were thinking by Web Technologies.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Definitions needed (Sean)

__Sean__: A case for adding definitions to clarify the meaning of certain
headings.

__Stuart__: We only have CI for browsing for now, but they will have Subject
browsing.  SKOS file translated into a custom taxonomy.  They will be
displaying it.  Will see if they can include the scope notes in the display.
There will be a subject browse.  We should do definitions - add to the SKOS
file
https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/TopicIndex/LD4PE-TopicVocab-v3.ttl --
currently only has labels.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Workflow for generating Google Docs (Tom)

https://github.com/ld4pe/ld4pe-general/issues/40

__Tom__: By November, we need to have defined a reasonable workflow for collecting
feedback and maintaining the Competency Index. 

__Stuart__: One outcome of grant: articulate community process.  Some thought
on how this will be done after grant is finished.  Lightweight process -
something that is not oppressive on participants.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Wrapping up CIEB work by end-June?

__Tom__: Propose that we hold one meeting every three weeks between now and the
end of June which works out to about six meetings.  After that, we enter the
summer months and by September we will already be in the last weeks of the
LD4PE Project.

__Stuart__: Good to hold one or two meetings in the Fall too.

